I recognize this may be a Windows behavior we can't change. I thought it was good to document regardless.

How OptiKey was being used
I was trying to navigate to a specific instance of an application using the taskbar. Using OptiKey, I pressed Win+T to move focus to the taskbar. Then I used the arrow keys to navigate to the app I wanted. Then I pressed enter to select that app. This opens the visual list of all windows of that app.

Note: I have the setting "Combine Taskbar buttons" set to "Always, hide labels" because this allows me to do most of my application switching using win+shift+num with a given num always corresponding to the same application. (By virtue of pinning apps to the taskbar in fixed positions.)

What the user expected to happen
I expected that I could continue to use OptiKey to use the arrow keys and enter to select the window I wanted.

What the user actually experienced
OptiKey disappeared and only the windows of that specific app were shown.

Version
Windows 10
OptiKey version 3.2.5.0
Also tested on Windows 11 (w/ Optikey v3.2.5.0); behavior is the same.

Steps to reproduce the issue
Set the taskbar setting "Combine Taskbar buttons" set to "Always, hide labels"
Open multiple windows of a specific app.
Press win+t
Use arrow keys to navigate to the app where you have multiple windows
Press enter
Notice that OptiKey disappears, preventing you from pressing any more keys.
Any other information that helps to describe and/or reproduce the problem
Occurs with both floating and docked keyboards.

I now have access to personal Windows 11 machine, and I can't reproduce this behavior on my personal Windows 11 machine. This issue happens on my work Windows 11 machine (and also did happen on my old personal Windows 10 machine).

Note: Issue 926 also is reproducible on my work Windows 11 machine but not my personal Windows 11 machine.

On both Windows 11 machines, I've looked through the taskbar settings, specifically the task bar behavior settings in Windows, and I can't find any differences between the two systems. But I would welcome suggestions of anywhere else I should look for potentially relevant settings.

Both machines are running the same version of Optikey: 3.2.5.0

Given that the personal machine is running a newer version of Windows, I have some hope that this is a windows bug that Microsoft may have fixed.

Version details:
Personal machine (bug doesn't happen here):
OptiKey 3.2.5.0
Windows version info:

Tagging @kmcnaught since we just talked about this issue.